P	his past year the pandemic imposed tragic cost to our nation, communities and fellow citizens. We can never forget those lost as we honor their lives by remembering their service to the nation and supporting their loved ones who remain behind. New vaccines and treatments provide us hope that we can once again gather and meet as we work to inspire the next generation of Americans to service.
P	The society had a strong first year successfully forming a non-profit, all volunteer 501.3(c)organization of 30 people representing over 750 years of collective service to the nation. These amazing servant leaders are dedicated to preserving Fort Gordon’s military museum and retaining the historical items and artifacts in Augusta, Georgia. I want to thank each of you who have already contributed for your trust and confidence you have placed in this dedicated team. For those who have not contributed we invite you to join us and help raise the money needed to build this museum and inspire the next generation of Americans to serve.
P	A museum near Fort Gordon is important because for over 100 years men and women have come together to serve the nation and our local communities. Without a new museum home, we risk losing access to these artifacts, inspiring innovations and stories. With the museum at Fort Gordon now closed, our goal to preserve these substantial historical contributions will ensure the next generation of Americans are educated and equipped for service. With the publishing of this second quarterly magazine, we are well on our way to establishing a key cultural site and a state-of-the-art museum with live and virtual exhibits designed to inspire and educate the next generation of leaders.
P	This quarter we honor on the Military Police (MPs) who secure(d) our posts and who called Fort Gordon home for many years after World War II. My father was among those who trained here at Fort Gordon and through his stories I first learned about that dusty two lane road called Tobacco road and the unique unit of infantrymen who were trained here to also become MPs. Stories of service and sacrifice are throughout this edition.
P	Enjoy!
H	Welton
P	Welton Chase, Jr. Brigadier General, U.S. Army (Retired) President & Chief Executive
P	Chairman’s Corner
P	The HERITAGE is a quarterly publication published by Fort Gordon Historical Museum Society
P	Chairman/Publisher Welton Chase, BG (Ret.) USA Editor in Chief Lan T. Dalat Executive Director Amy Tuschen Director of Outreach Stacy Gerber
P	Welton Chase, Jr.
P	Brigadier General US Army (Retired) Chairman of the Board
P	Thank You Alison South for designing our new logo and marketing strategy! Many thanks also to Lan Dalat for designing our original logo; we now have two outstanding choices to tell our story!
H	"My father was among those who trained here at Fort Gordon and through his stories I first learned about Tobacco Road. ”
