P	Written by Jennifer Welman
P	eginning in 1870, state correction facility punishments included the use of ball and chain, flogging, shackling, tattooing or branding, solitary confinement and execution. In early 1871, the Army banned all punishments except solitary confinement and execution. This became an issue as the War Department had very little say in these state run facilities.
P	Brigadier General Thomas F. Barr submitted a request to consider the concept of a military prison. Directed to investigate the situation by the Secretary of War, a board of officers was sent to Canada to study the British military prison system and their modes of punishment.
P	After thoroughly examining the British system, the board’s recommendations for a military penal system were approved at all levels and a bill submitted to Congress in January of 1872. After a proposed location change to Rock Island Arsenal, Illinois, for the first prison, the bill was passed and was signed by the president on March 3, 1873.
P	For numerous reason, including excessive security measures being required, the Secretary of War and the Ordnance Department objected to the location. Through the Adjutant General, a board was created to consider, by examination of best established state penitentiaries and prisons, the best correctional programs and physical plans. The board did determine it would be better to use a different site and recommended, although they were not charged with the responsibility, several alternatives.
P	The board’s findings were presented to Congress by the Secretary of War in early 1874. The amendment was approved on May 21, 1874, and the all provisions set for Rock Island were instead transferred to Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. In addition, existing buildings on site were to be modified as necessary to facilitate immediate establishment of the prison.
P	Remodeling, as well as building a wooden-fenced perimeter (stockade), was eventually deemed livable and the first prisoners arrived in September of 1875. Modifications were ongoing, including a stone quarry, which was used to replace the wooden wall with stone.
P	Vocational training began in 1877. Today it includes education, vocations ranging from stocking and clerical to varying repair training and job placement assistance for those whose sentences are ending.
P	Photographing of prisoners for the purpose of identification was set up by the War Department in 1888-89 to establish permanent photographic records.
H	“If you want total security, go to prison. There you’re fed, clothed, given medical care and so on. The only thing lacking is feedom.”
H	~Dwight D. Eisenhower
H	Disciplinary Barracks for Convicted Criminals
