P	https://www.georgiaencyclopedia.org/articles/government-politics/foreign-prisoners-war
P	During times of war, Georgia military installations have served as internment camps for enemies taken prisoner, as well as for aliens residing in the United States whose activities were viewed as suspect by the federal government. These prisoners were, at the least, topics of interest for native Georgians; at the most, they contributed significantly to the state's economy, especially during World War II (1941-45).
P	During the Spanish-American War(1898), Fort McPherson, on the southwest side of Atlanta, held sixteen Spanish prisoners of war who were captured in Cuba. Their stay was short because of the war's brevity. They were housed in the post guardhouse, which later became the post chapel.
P	World War I
P	When the United States entered World War I in 1917, the War Department established a camp at Fort Oglethorpe, Georgia, at the site of the Battle of Chickamauga, just south of Chattanooga, Tennessee. This camp initially held German merchant seamen whose ships were captured in American harbors as the nation entered the conflict. (At this time there were three other prisoner of war camps in the United States: Fort McPherson, Georgia; Fort Douglas, Utah; and Hot Springs, North Carolina.)
P	Inmates constructed the camp, which would eventually hold as many as 4,000 people, and neutral Swiss reports indicated that the inmates were provided with adequate food and other necessities. The merchant seamen were given the task of maintaining and running the installation but were given the additional option to work outside the camp in road construction or quarrying operations. Those who did not accept this supposed option were placed in punishment facilities and given half-rations. As anti- German sentiment grew, more German and Austrian aliens were arrested for "suspicious" activities; among them were eminent poets, scholars, businessmen, scientists, and musicians. This group was also interned at Fort Oglethorpe.
P	By mid-1918 the seamen were removed to Fort McPherson, where another camp of more than 1,300 men was established. Six hundred of the enlisted men at Fort McPherson
P	Cont. fom page 2
P	Continues on page 14
