P	Fort Leavenworth was among the first prisons to use this positive means of identification.
P	The prison came under fire, for many of the same reasons it was created in the first place. A bill, introduced to the House of Representatives in 1894-95 ended the War Department’s control of the prison and passed it on to the Department of Justice, becoming a United States Penitentiary on July 1, 1985.
P	The War Department was having second thoughts about the transfer of the military prison to the Department of Justice, as this transfer did not alleviate any of the original issues. On February 1, 1906 Fort Leavenworth again came under the control of the Department of War Department. It was later leased out to the Department of Justice due to overcrowding, but returned to the War Department on November 16, 1940.
P	With crowded conditions and lengthy prisoner waiting lists, the Disciplinary Barracks began to branch out in 1907. Some remained open only a short time, while others remain open today as state or federal prisons. In the meantime, Fort Leavenworth underwent reconstruction.
P	During World War II, with the exception of those facing life or very long sentences, soldiers who were overseas were held there as it was deemed unfair to return criminals to the safety of U.S. soil while honorable soldiers remained far from home. Had this policy not been in place, the Disciplinary Barracks would have burst at their seams.
P	Today, of the branches, only Fort Leavenworth remains a United States Disciplinary Barracks. And it is the only maximum security confinement facility of its type for the military.
P	Sources:
P	• http://www.cityofgrovetown.com/251/Fort- Gordon-History
P	• http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/ a437867.pdf
P	• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ List_of_U.S._military_prisons
P	Opened 1907: • Alcatraz Island (Pacific Branch) Opened 1914: • Fort Jay, New York (Atlantic Branch) Opened 1944: • Green Haven, New York (Eastern Branch) • North Camp Hood, Texas (Southern Branch) • Fort Missoula, Montana (Northwestern Branch) Opened 1945: • Camp Gordon, Georgia (Southeastern Branch) • Jefferson Barracks, Missouri (Central Branch) • Milwaukee, Wisconsin (Northern Branch) • Fort Benjamin Harrison, Indiana (Midwestern Branch) • Camp Haan, California (Southwestern Branch) • New Cumberland, Pennsylvania (East Central Branch) • Pine Camp, New York (Northeastern Branch) Opened 1947: • Lompoc, California
