P	and produced theatrical performances. They were also permitted to display national symbols of pride and to conduct funerals with military honors for the deceased. Prisoners not only maintained their camps but also performed such tasks as painting, mowing grass, and washing vehicles on the main installations.
P	As in World War I, installation camps had satellite camps of from 250 to 750 men that supplied workers for labor-poor southern industry and agriculture, and prisoners received half-rations and experienced activity restrictions if they refused to work. At one time before the War Department streamlined the camp system, Camp Gordon had satellite camps as far away as North Carolina and Florida. Workers harvested cotton, tomato, and peanut crops, and they worked in numerous industries, including pulpwood and lumber. By mid-1944 the shirts emblazoned with the large letters "PW" were a common sight in Georgia. Some German and Italian POWs befriended soldiers and farmers, and they were invited into Americans' homes for meals and entertainment.
P	Hard-line
P	Nazi groups in many camps led work stoppages and produced other tensions on a relatively steady basis. They maintained power over other German inmates through appeals to patriotism, intimidation, secret kangaroo trials, and murders of those whom they deemed suspicious. U.S. government officials attempted to identify those hard-line Nazis and intern them separately, but these efforts were less than successful. In 1944 prisoners at Camp Gordon secretly convicted a fellow inmate and strangled him because he was thought to have informed Americans about an impending work disruption and because he appreciated American jazz. His two murderers were tried and executed by the U.S. government in 1945.
P	With the war nearing an end, in 1944 the War Department began a reeducation program, which included photos and films of Nazi atrocities, to reorient inmates' thinking. Some prisoners also received lessons in reading English and in American history and government. When the war ended in 1945 all prisoners of war, with the exception of those serving sentences in U.S. penal institutions, were sent home. Some applied in their home countries to return to Georgia, and a few began to return during the 1950s, both to escape the devastation in Europe and to pursue employment opportunities.
P	One Italian and 21 German prisoners of war are buried at Fort Gordon.
P	Source: Erika Wells)
P	A platoon of U.S. soldiers fires a salute in honor of a German prisoner of war who died from injuries suffered in an accident. Some of his comrades (left) salute in the American manner and were joined by American officers and enlisted men at the ceremony on Nov. 2, 1943. (Used by permission of The Associated Press)
