P	leaders of Mosul along with those in that hostile crowd did not forget what those soldiers had done that day; none of us ever will. Their courage and action saved the mayor and his staff ensuring that peace and stability would endure. Evil did not win that day.
P	Just a few short days later on November 1st2003 the leaders of that angry crowd would extract their revenge against the brave acts of these soldiers in the form of a roadside bomb attack that would kill Maurice and his Lieutenant (Lieutenant Josh Hurley). Although Maurice and his Lieutenant were killed that day their selfless service, courage and sacrifice would not be forgotten. During Maurice’s memorial service I was approached by the Iraqi leaders of the Mayor’s office. They asked if they could come forward to pray for Maurice and his family. I allowed them to do so and in a sign of great respect and courage they honored his service and sacrifice despite the great personal risks of doing this in front of their fellow countrymen.
P	Maurice’s mother had challenged him to make something of himself. When asked to stand up and serve, he did. When asked to go into harms way, he did. When asked to face danger to make a difference, he did. He did what great Americans most yearn all their lives to do: make a positive difference in this world.As we work to inspire the next generation to “service above self” we can never forget his story of selfless service and sacrifice. Maurice and Josh have woven a a bright strong thread of strength into the blanket of security that has kept our nation free. Their example continues to make a difference in this world by inspiring men and women to do the right thing even when they are afraid. Evil did not win on the day they were killed as their service and sacrifice will forever echo through eternity.
P	This month we celebrate for a multitude of reasons: the presidents who served us past and present, the contributions to our history by black Americans and also our loved ones near and far during Valentines Day. May we never forget all those who serve, and who even now are standing the watch around the world to keep us free. May their service remind us to hold our loved ones close and to have the courage to to make a positive difference every day.
H	Army Spc. Maurice J. Johnson
P	21, of Levittown, Pa.; assigned to C Company, 501st Signal Battalion, 101st Airborne Division (Air Assault), based in Fort Campbell, Ky.; killed Nov. 1 when his Humvee was hit by an improvised explosive device in Mosul, Iraq.
H	HONOR THE FALLEN
P	Cont. fom page 7
