P	FORT GORDON HISTORICAL MUSEUM SOCIETY
P	Dear Teammates,
P	On behalf of the men and women of the Fort Gordon Historical Museum Society (FGHMS) welcome to this first edition of the HERITAGE! Along with our incredibly talented team I am honored to present this magazine as part of our mission. As many of you know Fort Gordon’s museum is set to close in 2021. In order to preserve the substantial historical contributions to the nation, educate our citizens and prepare the next generation of Americans for service to the nation, we created Fort Gordon Historical Museum Society, Corporation as a duly incorporated Domestic Nonprofit Corporation under the laws of the State of Georgia with approved IRS internal revenue code (IRC) Section 501 (c) 3 status.
P	Over the past several months we have come a long way. With a talented staff, board of directors, advisors, and liaisons from the Army we established a good framework for success by recruiting great people and developing the governance and oversight that will serve our organization well. As we move into phase two, we start our fundraising and will select a final location for the site that will become the home of FGHMS. Once complete, we intend to continue our close partnership with the Army and to formally enter into a public private partnership so we can begin transferring artifacts into the museum.
P	Our intent is to secure a permanent site near Fort Gordon that would include exhibition space and classrooms, space for the restoration of artifacts, and administration. Establishing an enduring state of the art physical museum, with live and virtual content, is an exciting endeavor! We hope you will tell your friends and neighbors about what we are doing so they too can join our team and help us preserve the history of all those who have served at Fort Gordon.
P	As we work to accomplish these goals, we’ll also expand our virtual presence so you can explore and enjoy more content. With winter approaching, we’ll begin our first virtual fire side chat. These sessions will include a special guest presenting content and answering questions along with allowing you to meet some amazing veterans. We hope you can make these sessions and that you’ll learn more about the history, service and sacrifice of those who have helped defend the nation. These sessions along with our virtual magazine are just the beginning of our digital footprint. Over the coming months will will offer more content that enables you to interact with the history and artifacts that have kept our country secure. If you have some ideas and/or want to help this team, please join us.
P	Many thanks to our talented team of volunteers who pulled this effort together and to each of you for helping us start this important endeavor. I hope you enjoy this inaugural magazine edition!
P	See you on the high ground,
H	Welton
P	Chairman’s Corner
P	The HERITAGE is a quarterly publication published by Fort Gordon Historical Museum Society
P	Chairman/Publisher Welton Chase, BG (Ret.) USA Editor in Chief Lan T. Dalat Executive Director Amy Tuschen Director of Outreach Stacy Gerber
P	Welton Chase, Jr.
P	Brigadier General US Army (Retired) Chairman of the Board
P	Our intent is to secure a permanent site near Fort Gordon that would include exhibition space and classrooms, space for the restoration of artifacts, and administration.
