P	FORT GORDON HISTORICAL MUSEUM SOCIETY
P	hat is it about family history that fascinates, inspires, and draws us so deeply into selfexploration? How many of us sat at our parent’s or grandparent’s knees with wide eyes and open mouths as they told us about their time in the military- about their loves, losses, and lessons.
P	Even as a young child, the connection to my own family’s military history was ever present. It existed in the flag hung outside my grandfather’s Arlington home; in the tarnished Virginia Military Institute (VMI) class ring collecting dust in my great-grandfather’s bedroom. It existed in the way our National Anthem always gave me a sense of pride that I wasn’t sure I yet deserved.
P	As a young college student, I had no ambition to join the Military. They were interesting stories, I told myself, but not something I though was ever in my future. In a distinct military fashion, however, my original plans changed drastically when at 20 years old, I made the quick decision to join the National Guard. Barely 5 months later I was standing on the stage at Fort Leonardwood, wearing my poorly shaped beret, my uncomfortable basic issue dress shoes, and staring down at three of my retired Army uncles who clapped the loudest and the longest for their first female military member in my family’s history.
P	I have lived a lot of life since that moment. I found myself as a Second Lieutenant, struggling to live up to the sudden expectations and pressures that come with being a Leader in our organization. I began asking my grandfather about his own time as an Officer, hoping to absorb some of his 25 years of experience. As I pieced together the movements of his career I was startled to find parallels in our experiences We both spent
P	Army Captain James B. McCormick commanded Charlie Co. of the Signal Long Lines Bn., directly under Eight Army from 1964-1965.
P	Story by Hannah McCormick
H	Family Connection Through Military Service in Korea
P	First Lieutenant McCormick stands holding the C Company Guidon from her grandfather’s time in Korea.
P	Cont. on page 17
