P	FORT GORDON HISTORICAL MUSEUM SOCIETY
P	Catholic school, where they intended for me to beneft from a good education in a war-torn country. Outside of the schoolhouse, my curiosity oen led me to a place where I watched the military cadets marching with their weapons and their communications equipment. I was fascinated most by the crackling human voice coming out of the radios during their road marches. At the age of eight, my formal education at the Catholic school was abruptly cut short. Instantly and radically, my life changed on April 30, 1975, when Saigon, Vietnam fell to the communists. T e political fabric of short lived Republic of Vietnam unraveled as the core social and economic policies in which my family had thrived disintegrated. My parents’ past social status and political affiliation brought unwanted changes to our lives in the post war era. T ey made every effort to raise our family and adjust to life under the new regime. We were forced to move to a smaller place within the ideology of the communist doctrine inside Saigon, which was renamed Ho Chi Minh City. T ese were dangerous times for my family. It was during this period that extraordinary measures were formulated to meet the future goals of our family. It became clear to us even as children that catastrophe loomed around every corner. If we were to survive, high-risk remedies were necessary. T is period of crisis demanded a desperate response. Our radical reaction propelled us into an exodus that began before dawn on
P	March 8, 1981. T e bright Southeast Asian sun had not broken the still of the night when my mother, my three siblings and I crept along the edge of the Saigon River. My father remained behind to ensure our safe passage. We le behind everything behind for a perilous journey searching for freedom and opportunities. A week later, our canoe reached the “rendezvous” point in total darkness. Suddenly, I was a boat person, one among thousands of Vietnamese who crammed onto small wooden boats and ed Vietnam. Not knowing the actual outcome and destination, every person on the unseaworthy wooden boat would hope to land on a peaceful and welcoming shore. Aer fve arduous days enduring rough waves, the small boat’s
P	Lan T. Dalat at the age of 8
P	Lan T. Dalat (top left) with parents, grand mother, and siblings in Saigon post 1975
P	Cont. fom page 14
P	Cont. on next page
