P	FORT GORDON HISTORICAL MUSEUM SOCIETY
P	engine abruptly ceased operation seting us adrif in the open sea thus threaten the possibility of surviving the ordeal. Meanwhile the food and water supply ran so dangerously low that cannibalism was discussed for the ultimate survival. T e remaining water was rationed down to one cap full a day until supply ran out. Dehydration and severe hunger caused massive hallucination among the boat people. “Mommy, can you buy me some water? I’m so thirsty.” My litle brother desperately asked my mom. “Son, I will buy you all the water you want when we get to shore. Don’t worry, we will be there soon.” My mother atempted to comfort my litle brother. It wasn’t clear if she actually saw an airplane ying above or just hallucinating. Nonetheless, my mother pulled out her compact mirror atempting to communicate with the plane using the reection of the sun light. Nothing prevailed. For the next seven days, the boat carrying 138 lives remained adrif on the open South China Sea without any hope for survival. T ere were no winds, no waves, no land, and no other form of life around our boat. It was a fear of the painful slow death that everyone was afraid to face. T ere were talks about commiting suicide among some elderly rather than facing starvation. Early morning on March 20, 1981, the dying refugees on the wooden boat that had been adrif on the South China Sea for days were awaken by a deafening noise from two low ying jets. T e noise woke up everyone from their miserable existence and from their hallucination. “What countries are those jets? Are they Russians or Chinese?” Someone questioned about the jets. Someone else asked “Were they real or am I hallucinating? T ree shots rang out from the bow of the boat took another surprising jolt among the people. A defecting soldier had red off three rounds into the sky from his AK-47 assault rie. He atempted to signal the aircrafs to return with his unclear SOS message. “T ey are denitely real.” A man in the late 40s answered condently. “T ose are Americans and WE ARE SAVED!” T e cheer broke out with so much excitement solely based on that speculation. T e hidden energy from being near death suddenly emerged and triggered the impulse for survival. T e jets disappear into the horizon and never returned. Anxiety set in as everyone anxiously waiting for the return of those jets. I forgot about the hunger. I forgot about the thirst. I was so excited about the possibility of being rescued. On that very hot and dry day on the surface of the calm sea, I vigorously scanned the horizon for any sign of the aircrafs. Not until the sun began to lower toward the horizon, the hopes for rescuing diminished and people began to fade off as they blankly stare out onto the horizon with no signs of hope on their faces. Suddenly, a voice yelled out “I can see the ships. Over there! Over there!” It
P	138 Vietnamese refugees fleeing Vietnam on unseaworthy wooden boat.
P	Photo: US Navy
