P	FORT GORDON HISTORICAL MUSEUM SOCIETY
P	there that I learned about the selfess service that the volunteers had provided us. Aer six months at the refugee camp, I immigrated to the United States of America with my mother and siblings with the help of my mother’s older brother, my uncle and his church in Olympia, Washington. As a legal immigrant in America, I learned to use every tool I owned and to apply them to every lesson I have learned in order to strive in the land of opportunity. For the rst few months, my aunt took us into their home where we got our rst taste of an American life. Shortly aer, we moved away from the American lifestyle and adopted the “Gheto” culture not knowingly. Our family became independent but living in the shadow of gangs, drugs, and violence. It was there that I quickly realized my existence in that part of the world was not wanted. I encountered prejudice and discrimination while trying to learn how to break away from the violent gheto culture. I was living among the poorest people in the lowest rent district within the rich and abundance Orange County, California. For years, I questioned the choices my mother had made and the vision we had for America. It wasn’t a life that I had envisioned risking one life to nd. Working three jobs in the sweatshop factories, my mother was able to afford the move that took us to another part of Orange County where life and opportunity began to surface for me. It was at Tustin High School that I learned about teamwork and leadership. It was there that running earned me a varsity leter instead of surviving a brutal beating by gang members. It was there that I was trained and mentored by a track coach named Tom Coffee who taught me hard work would achieve success. Meanwhile, my father faced adverse actions from the Vietnamese government. Upon his release from jail for his multiple atempts to escape from Vietnam following our successful rescue by the U. S. Navy, he fed again with great success. His boat landed him in Malaysia where he served as the refugee camp leader. Finally, he reunited with his family aer immigrated to the US two days before my high school graduation. Upon graduation from high school, I enlisted in the U. S. Army Reserve as a way to serve and to get a college education. As a weekend warrior with a specialized training in logistics, I was able to nd a fulltime job during the day. At night, I enrolled in a local community college with a determination gain a college level education. My pace for success was much slower than most of my peers since I had to balance my life with a full-time job, a struggling immigrant family, and school. Eventually, I graduated from California State University Fullerton and was commissioned through the Army Reserve Officers’Training Corps program as a Second Lieutenant in the Signal Corps. Prior to that signicant day, I sought out to nd the skipper who
P	Lan T. Dalat (right) and siblings take refuge at Vietnamese Refugee Camp in Palawan, Philippines in 1981.
