P	FORT GORDON HISTORICAL MUSEUM SOCIETY
P	ast Monday, August 3, 2020, in collaboration with SAVE and The Erika Legacy Foundation, Cisco released the public beta version of https://reportingonsuicide.cisco.com/. This is the story of how we’re using data science to save lives, why this launch matters and how you can help prevent suicide by making small changes in the way you communicate about mental illness. It’s also my story, which I’ve never told publicly.
P	Last Thursday, August 6th, marked the 5-year anniversary of a very close friend’s suicide. Erika (in whose honor her parents created the aforementioned foundation) and I had traveled across 3 continents, jumped out of a plane, designed custom matching pinky rings, and even created a book together. We talked about (almost) everything and kept a Google Sheet listing all of the adventures we’d go on. We quite literally had a plan to spend the rest of our lives together.
P	Then, a month before her 30th birthday, she suicided. It broke me. As is common for survivors who have lost someone to suicide, I spent the next 4 years blaming myself for her death.
P	In 2019, Erika’s father, Bill Elkington, and the psychologist he introduced to me after Erika’s death, Peter Comrie, helped me understand how the way we talk about mental illness and suicide often contributes to whether people seek the treatment they need. Or if, as Erika did, they mask their illness so effectively that it becomes life threatening.
P	Inspired by Dr. Dan Reidenberg, whose life’s work I became familiar with via https:// reportingonsuicide.org/, I cold called Dr. Dan and asked if he’d want to working together to democratize his research. It was clear that even though the science was solid and backed by discerning organizations including the CDC, the guidelines’ adoption levels were low- too low. Dr. Dan accepted my offer and I’m honored to call him a colleague today. Based on his and his and collaborators’ findings, the WHO established reporting on
H	A.I. SAVES LIVES
P	Story by Jennifer Redmon
H	DON’T GIVE UPYOU’RE NOT ALONE
