P	FORT GORDON HISTORICAL MUSEUM SOCIETY
P	suicide as one of the 7 priority areas for suicide prevention and created a resource for media professionals.
P	In late 2019, Dr. Thomas Niederkrotenthaler published shocking research: in cases where reports of celebrity suicides didn’t adhere to the WHO guidelines, the contagion effect increased the national suicide rate by up to 13%. Even though Peter had made aware of suicide’s contagion effect- Erika’s suicide made me statistically between 5–50% more likely to also die by suicide and Peter estimated my personal risk level to be closer to 75%- I had no idea that the contagion effect was so vast. As I sought to better understand the contagion effect, Dr. Dan shared with me that across the board, the risk of whether or not someone else might die by suicide as a result of another’s (celebrity or not) is about 3–5%. To put this number in context, COVID -19’s contagion effect is 5.7%.
P	I’m not a media professional, and chances are, neither are you. But social media, to which more people are turning for their news every day, has blurred the lines between content creator and consumer. This means that the guidelines aren’t just applicable to professionals, but to us amateurs (who post on Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn etc.) as well. The good news is they’re relatively short:
P	• Don’t discuss, describe, or depict the method and location of someone’s suicide. Doing so has led to an increase in suicides on countless occasions- disproportionally by the same method.
P	• Don’t use the stigmatizing term ‘commit(ted)’ suicide. People commit sins and crimes- not illnesses. Instead, say “died by suicide” or “suicided”
P	• Don’t share the content of a suicide note. It can push people who identify with its contents to suicide instead of pursue treatment.
P	• Don’t oversimplify or speculate on the reason for the suicide. We still don’t fully understand suicide and mental illness, but we do know that suicide is never simple.
P	• Don’t glamorize, romanticize or sensationalize suicide. If you feel that suicide is glamorous, romantic or sensational, please seek out help from a mental health professional.
P	• Keep in mind that the topic of suicide may be triggering for anyone you talk to or who reads your social media posts. Ensure your posts reference a helpline. For example, in the U.S., the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline’s # is 1–800–273–8255;
P	Screenshot of Suicide Reporting Guidelines
H	A.I. SAVES LIVES
P	Continuation fom Page 24
