P	FORT GORDON HISTORICAL MUSEUM SOCIETY
P	Crisis Text Line can be reached by texting HOME to 741741 (US), 686868 (Canada), or 85258 (UK).
P	Based on this incredible body of research, my partner in good, Dr. Annie Ying, an AI PhD, and I put together the following plan: to create a tool similar to a grammar checker in which users could paste text pre-publication/pre-posting which would highlight any words or phrases that doesn’t comply with the guidelines while providing education and recommendations.
P	Earlier in 2019, I established Cisco’s Data Science and AI for Good program as a channel for Cisconians to give back pro bono and couldn’t be more grateful for the 100+ people who offered to donate their time towards suicide prevention. This list included executive sponsors Chief Data Officer Shanthi Iyer and Head of Data Science Sanjiv Patel, without whom the requisite tools and infrastructure for our vision of a globally scaled platform would have become a massive hurdle.
P	With the volunteers on board, our first step was data labeling, as no repository existed from which we could source the information. Data Scientist Riley Hun established an API-based data pipeline. Architect Edgar Murillo then created an easy-to-use UI in which even non-technical volunteers could read a media report and label which text violated which guidelines. Many, many nights and weekends later, we’d labeled almost 2,000 articles. I’d like to take this opportunity to give a big shout-out to our top contributors: Dennis Chesky (294 articles), Ross Pfile (242), Zeecil Kimmel (165), Artemio Rimando (119), Perry Mays (107), Jodi MacMillan (95), Meghan Richardson (86), Scott Elliott (79), Gary Bantad (65), Anthony Nasiatka (61), Chris Dolan (54), and Lynne Coughlan (50).
P	We were horrified to discover that only 3% of the articles we’d labeled adhered to all of the guidelines.
P	With the labeled data, Data Scientists Artemio Rimando and Shima Gerani built the string matching based data science model in Python while UX/UI Developer Raphael Tissot build the web site and user experience. This was a multi-month process in which Dr. Dan and his team worked closely with us to ensure that the tool’s functionality met his standards.
P	Now that the public beta version is live, the team is working to improve the tool’s performance (Shima is coding as I write this) and build the product development roadmap based on our media and academic partners’ input to maximize the guidelines’ adoption.
P	And as for you, dear reader, please adopt the guidelines. It wil help save lives.
H	Chief Data & Analytics Evangelist @ Cisco | Director of Data Science and Artificial Intelligence @ The Erika Legacy Foundation | DS for Good Advocate | All view
