P	eam - In this edition we dedicate our magazine to those communicators that supported our special operations community. These incredible young men and women have often led the technological developments for our Army through the unique requirements to ensure their special operators could rapidly move, shoot, communicate and strike anywhere in the world. The stories of these accomplishments begin to end some of the mystique that surrounds our special operations community and will give you some great insights into the brave men and women who solved the wicked problem sets that truly enabled these special team of warriors. I hope you will enjoy reading the stories, seeing the pictures and reliving just some of the history that this edition will bring to light. I challenge you to join us in inspiring the next generation to service above self as we unlock and share the history of accomplishments that have occurred throughout our signal and cyber mission forces. Many thanks to our General Officers, Senior Executives and Sergeants Major who, along with each of you, continue to support the Historical Museum Society. You can join our team by making a donation, contributing a story, picture or volunteering to help us share these stories. In that spirit I am including the picture below that was taken back in 1994 when I was a Company Commander of an Airborne Signal Company at Fort Bragg that supported the XVIII Airborne Corps Main Command Post. As we were preparing to conduct an airborne operation on green ramp I got a call that the Corps Commander would be joining us for this mission. Upon meeting General Shelton, he asked about our operation and immediately put me at ease with his confident calm demeanor. General Shelton is a legend and having come out of our special operations community I was nervous that our preparation would not meet his high standards. As I briefed him on our airborne assault and follow-on mission, I could see that he was pleased with our planning, attention to detail and scope of the mission. I was amazed that this senior leader would take the time to come down inspect our training and to jump with us. His leadership by example is something I would never forget. General Shelton would go on to become the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and I never forgot his leadership example and I was honored to support and serve alongside him at Fort Bragg. His outstanding example of leadership is emblematic of how our special operations community “lead from the front.” Many thanks to all of our special operator communicators and leaders for all you do as you truly are amongst our most elite warriors.
P	Chairman’s Corner
P	The HERITAGE is a quarterly publication published and copyrighted by Fort Gordon Historical Museum
P	Society
P	Chairman/Publisher Welton Chase, BG (Ret.) USA Editor in Chief Lan T. Dalat Executive Director Amy Tuschen Director of Outreach Stacy Gerber
P	General Shelton and the young Captain Chase
H	Welton
