P	1. Tell us about your upbringing. Where were you born and raised and what was it like for you?
P	I was born on a small island of Anguilla, in the British West Indies. At three months, my mother moved to Saint
P	Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands. We were pretty poor: it was not extravagant. My mom was a single parent. I was youngest of eight kids. My mother taught me a lot growing up that helped me throughout my years. She really trusted me as a young kid of seven or eight years old. She used to let me go to the grocery store and go to the bank to cash her check. So I learned responsibility and financial responsibility. It taught me discipline, responsibility, organization, maturity, and focus: traits I have carried with me throughout my like.
P	My first time in the US was at 13 yrs old when I moved to Virginia to visit my sister. From there, I attended junior high school and high school. I transferred because I wanted to get into an environment that was a little bit more conducive to learning.
P	2. What prompted you to join the army?
P	In high school, I joined the Navy JROTC. Truly, the main reason I joined was because I needed extra clothes to wear to school and more importantly a jacket to stay warm. They issued us pea coats with our uniform and I needed a coat to keep me warm because typically I walked to school. I prospered in JROTC and eventually I made it from a young cadet to the commander of our program.
P	I joined the Army right out of high school at 17 yrs old. We couldn’t afford college and plus my grades weren’t as great as they should’ve been in order for me to get a scholarship. Since I thrived in Navy JROTC, I went to the Navy recruiter and wanted to leave that day but they couldn’t get me out of the door quickly enough. I went to the USMC recruiter and again they really couldn’t get me out the door quick enough. I went to the Army and the Army was ready to go. So the next morning I left for Basic training at Ft. Dix, New Jersey.
P	3. Why Signal Regiment?
P	My recruiter told me that Signal would be a great choice. In 1983, Signal was more analog so I became a signaleer within the analog environment. My first duty assignment was in Korea. I was a tactical signal operator, laying wire, retrans systems, and operating the radio. My platoon Sergeant encouraged me to become an Airborne Soldier; so I submitted my 4187 and was selected to attend Airborne school. Subsequently, I was assigned to the 4th Psychological Operations Group (SO)(A). This was my introduction into Special Operations in 1985. I would spend the next 24 years assigned to numerous Special Operations units.
P	4. What impact did you see Signal make when you were a younger Soldier and why did you reenlist?
P	I saw Signal evolving from an analog environment to a more digital environment, and today in IP space. I had the advantage of being assigned within Special Operations and seeing how rapidly communication
H	Brigadier General
H	Jeth Rey
H	Q &A
H	with
P	Cont. next Page
