P	technology advanced. Therefore, I really wanted to stay longer. When 112th Signal Battalion (SO)(A) was established in 1986 at Fort Bragg, I was one of the first five personnel assigned to the newly established organization. This new organization had special kit, the SOCA (Special Operations Communications Assemblage). It was mobile and being a Special Operations communicator was exciting as we developed new Spec Ops kits. I was really honored to be a plank holder and honored to go on a command 112th Signal Battalion (SO)(A) in 2012.
P	When I was an NCO, the 75th Ranger Regt needed communicators. My name was drawn from the pool of other communicators around the Army and we all got assigned to the 3rd Ranger Bn at Fort Benning Georgia. I spent the next 7 yrs in 3rd Ranger Bn as an NCO, Warrant, and Officer. I suspect this is the only time someone has served in all three of those capacities (NCO, Warrant, and Officer) in the Ranger Regiment.
P	5.Why did you become a warrant officer?
P	When I enlisted in the Army, my goal was to make it to SFC/E-7. I pinned on SFC in 8 yrs. I was intrigued about Warrant Officers. In the Special Operations community, I had been exposed to several credentialing courses that forced me to technically improve my level of expertise. Those opportunities propelled my career; thus I submitted my packet for a chance to attend warrant officer field. I was selected on my first look and upon graduation from the Warrant Basic Course I was reassigned to the 3rd Ranger BN.
P	6. Why did you become a commissioned officer?
P	As a CW2 while at the 3rd BN of 75th Ranger Regt, GEN Stephen Townsend (currently AFRICOM Commander) was a MAJ at the time, pushed me to become a commissioned officer and go to OCS. I was selected and So it was really because of GEN Townsend and LTG (Ret.) Frank Kearney (who was my BC and a LTC at the time). Towards the end of OCS, then LTC Kearney needed a signal officer in his battalion in order to regain Readiness. So the day I graduated OCS as the DHG, I returned to 3rd Ranger BN as the SIGO, before I even when to Signal OBC. I went to OBC 4 months later.
P	7. How important is mentoring? Having a good mentor is key. Throughout my career I’ve benefitted from the candor, wisdom, and expertise from talented mentors. It was vital to have mentors who were not only the same level and/or rank, but sometimes noncommissioned officers who guided me. Solid mentoring ensures the mentee benefits from the mentor’s key lessons learned and experiences that you have had over time. Mentoring is building that professional relationship and providing advice, encouragement, and impartial, direct, and timely feedback. A good mentor is a good listener, a good teacher, and one with impeccable character. My mentors in Special Operations encouraged me to progress from NCO, to Warrant, and now to General officer.
P	8. How do you stay technically proficient throughout the ranks?
P	I love my craft. In my early years as a younger soldier, I used to come home from work in the evening and just research and read technical manuals. I enjoyed drawing schematics. Also I perused websites and reviews to stay proficient. It is important to continue to study organizations like Google, Microsoft, CISCO and those power houses. It is important to understand their five-year and ten-year plans to help predict what’s important in the tech world. Special Operations also emphasized the value of learning from those around you regardless of rank. This has helped me remain proficient throughout my career.
P	9. What is the future of signal how did your history in the Army get you ready for your current position?
P	I’ve been in the Army for 37 years and of which 24 years I was assigned within Special Operations. The
P	Cont. on Page 13
