P	they’d been handed, using it in a completely different way, dramatically increasing theCommand-and- Controlcapabilities of the division, in contact. And that is the most important thing, adaptability and innovation in contact, operational effects…that is probably aboutthe best example that I can come up.
P	I will tell you another one when I was in the JCSE. A young sailor was complaining to me about the kit that he had deployedwith,and he had several changes that he would like to make to it.So, when we got back from the deployment, we put himin our engineering shop.We brought inseveral of the other Team Chiefs from across the element, Army, Air Force, Navy,and said “You don’t like the kit, youdesign the next version that we're going to field across the element. And you're going to deploy with it.”And they did. And that's what literally it's become, that kit designed bySoldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Marines. They were going to be Team Chiefs that deployed with that kit. Literally, it’sthe foundation of everything we're doing with the Army's expeditionary Signal Battalion enhancedtoday. Soldier ingenuity, I mean it just never everceasesto amaze me.
P	Rick Piña:When you think of Signal, Cyber, EW.When you think about soldiers and civilians and contractors, and you go around and talk to these folks, what excites you about the people that we have in the force today? And then, what are you excited about asit relates to our future?
P	LTG Morrison: The people.Not the technology. The technology is going to come butit'sgoing to be brought by people.It'sgoing to be implemented by people.Sowhen I think about the future quite frankly, what gives me, great hopeis our people.
P	Itjust never ceases to amaze me over these many, many years, how you can just watch folks, no matter howcrummythe conditions, no matter how tough the environment, make a joke and figure something out that you never, ever, thought was going to be possible.Or come up withsomething that is going to make it better or fix a problem.
P	What gets me excited about the future?The people.If you’re in the Signal or Cyber branch you should be pinchingyourself. Because youare just going to be a key part of where ourArmy wants to head, and how ourArmy will fight in the future.That’spretty heady stuff. I would submit to youthat it is a responsibility for everybody, whether a Soldier or a civilian, or one of our contractor teammates, that you need to bethat key enablerand you need to think of what an operator needs, you need to knowwhat maneuvercommander’srequirementsarebefore they do.And you need to be as proactive as our predecessors. You need to do that in the future,maybe evenmore so.But it hasnever been about the technology, it'salways been about the people taking a technology and making it work and making it be that critical enabler to support operations.
P	I am very, very hopeful for the future.I'mexcited about it.That is my message.It’san exciting time of change in ourArmy,in the SignalRegiment,in the CyberBranch.It'san importanttime and I am excited because of our people.
P	Toni Wilcox is an Army brat, veteran, and spouse who has written for the Military Times newspapers and Military Spouse magazine.
