P	One may think that the SCAMPI system was a darling of imagination, however, this would be misleading. A request from JSOC came into USSOCOM for additional funding for more 56 KB circuits to enhance their image distribution system. Back of the envelope calculations showed that for the price of three 56 KB circuits a full T1 circuit could be acquired.This provided a 24 to 1 increase in capacity over a single 56 KB circuit at one eighth to cost. Remember this was 1987 and the use of T1 was new to theDoD.
P	The finances were a no brainer. The challenge was how to maximize the bandwidth for other critical services, e.g. unclassified voice, TS voice and TS(SCI) voice Fax and etc. (This was before the Internet TCP/IP and WWW technology were widespread). To solve this the SCAMPI architecture was designed to “tunnel” through a TS (SCI) high system using super encrypted channels on the T1 to separate the unclassified voice and TS Red Switch trunks. This was a novel approach to say the least.
P	SCAMPI originally started as a hub and spoke network but quickly evolved to a highly survivable mesh. In 1990 deployable SCAMPI nodes were implemented. Soon after TCP/IP and web based applications became available.
P	The success of SCAMPI brought attention from other elements of the DoD and especially DISA. Although the TS(SCI) system high architecture was not copied it did provide the primary impetus for the Defense Information Systems Network (DISN). DISA later unsuccessfully tried to roll SCAMPI into the DISN.Eventual integration and cooperation ensued.
P	The rapid implementation of SCAMPI was the product of the general SOF approach to meeting any mission. Streamlined acquisition, bottom up requirement development and agility were prime factors. Decision authority was pushed down to appropriate levels. Funding decisions were quick.Implementation and operations teams were small.
P	Army Colonel (Ret.) John R. Thomas (left) and his nephew, newly commissioned 2nd Lt. Joey Zirkel at West Point, New York.
