H	“NO ORDINARY SIGNAL UNIT”
P	The 112th Signal Battalion in Panama by Christopher E. Howard
P	ullets ripped through Hangar 450 at Albrook Air Station, Panama, in the late evening of 19 December 1989, just as U.S. Army Special Forces Major (MAJ) Kevin M. Higgins and his Company A, 3rd Battalion, 7th Special Forces Group (A/3-7th SFG) prepared to depart for their H -Hour target: the Pacora River Bridge. “We lifted off to go to the fight,” Higgins explained, “but the fight had come to the men at the hangar.” Two of them were Staff Sergeant (SSG) Henry N. McCrae and Sergeant (SGT) Steven I. Elizalde, from the 112th Signal Battalion (Airborne), one of the newest Army Special Operations Forces (ARSOF) units. Their small signal element, consisting of two, three-man Special Operations Communications Assemblage (SOCA) teams, was providing secure communications for the Special Operations Command, South (SOCSOUTH), led by Colonel (COL) Robert C. ‘Jake’ Jacobelly.
P	Later, while he scanned his target from a cow pasture on the west side of the Pacora River, MAJ Higgins talked with Lieutenant Colonel (LTC) David J. Wilderman (J-3, SOCSOUTH) and Captain (CPT) Charles T. Cleveland (S-3, 3-7th SFG) “like they were standing next to me.” The SOCA team at Albrook provided Wilderman and Cleveland the situational awareness to prioritize highdemand assets, like the AC -130 Spectre gunship and the quick reaction force (QRF) at Albrook. Once committed, SOCSOUTH had nothing to reinforce other elements in contact. Clear and timely communications were essential to mission success on the opening night of Operation JUST CAUSE, and the 112th Signal Battalion SOCAs delivered. They continued to do so throughout the operation.
P	This article details 112th Signal Battalion origins and explains how it was manned and equipped as a dedicated special operations communications battalion. The battalion’s ‘trial-by-fire’ in Panama, 1989 – 1990 is highlighted. The focus is the SOCA teams that provided SOCSOUTH and ARSOF elements secure tactical communications during Operation JUST CAUSE and the follow-on stability operation, PROMOTE LIBERTY.
P	Origins
P	The Army committed to modernizing its special operations forces (SOF) after the hostage rescue mission in Iran (Operation EAGLE CLAW) failed in 1980. 1st Special Operations Command (1st SOCOM) was provisionally established at Fort Bragg, North Carolina, in 1982, to command and control ARSOF. About the same time, forwardthinking officers began ‘beating the drum’ for a signal unit capable of supporting both 1st SOCOM and theaterlevel Joint Unconventional Warfare Task Forces (JUWTF).
P	One such officer was MAJ
P	James D. ‘Dave’ Bryan, a Special Forces (SF) and Rangerqualified Signal Officer. His experience in 7th SFG (including two years commanding its signal company
P	From its activation in 1986 until 1990, 112th Signal Battalion soldiers wore the Shoulder Sleeve Insignia (SSI) of 1st Special Operations Command, its higher headquarters.
P	Cont. on Page 14
