P	A highly respected Special Operations communicator and Cyber leader, Rey started out in 1983 as a private in Korea, but soon advanced through the enlisted ranks to become a non-commissioned officer (NCO) in the 112 th Signal Battalion (SO) (see accompanying article) and a Senior NCO in the Ranger Regiment as a Sergeant First Class. He volunteered for Warrant Officer school to expand his technical skills which he again used in the Ranger Regiment upon his graduation. Following the advice of LTG (Ret.) Frank Kearney, his Ranger battalion commander, Rey then went to Officer Candidate School where he was commissioned as a 2LT in his first step toward his current status as a Signal Flag Officer. In a testimony to BG Rey’s abilities, LTC Kearney brought 2LT Rey back to the Ranger Battalion to fill the Signal Officer position prior to Rey even attending his officer basic course. Once Rey had the Basic Course under his belt, he spent the next seventeen years providing critical communications support to senior commanders and special operators. These included the SOUTHCOM Commander, Green Berets and Special Operations Aviators, Tier One operators in our most sensitive Special Mission Units, and the President. As Rey transitioned to the most senior ranks, he continued to support Cyber operations around the globe. First as the Commander of the 516 th Signal Brigade in the Pacific and then as the J6 for the United States Central
P	Command (CENTCOM) in Tampa, FL. BG Jeth Rey is not finished as he recently assumed a new role as the Director, Network Cross-Functional Team where he will influence communications capability and doctrine for years to come.
P	lessons I have learned throughout the different Special Operations units to which I have been assigned have molded me. Within Special Operations, I’ve been assigned to Psychological Operations, 112th Signal Battalion, 75th Ranger
P	Regiment, and a Special Mission Unit. I had the honor of being assigned to support at the Executive level at White House Communication Agency and then at my previous assignment was CENTCOM. All these assignments have really prepared me for my current assignment as the Director of the Network Cross Functional Team in which we are shaping the vision of the Army’s tactical network.
P	In summary, serving within the Special Operations Community, going from junior enlisted, to NCO, to Warrant, to commissioned Officer within the Special Operations community has molded me into the General Officer I am. If a soldier approached me who is eager to get ahead, learn and advance, one of the things I would recommend is that the soldier look towards opportunities to assess for and potentially serve in Special Operations. Spec Ops has an environment that provides the latest technical advances in communications and will really lay the foundation going forward both as a capable, mature Soldier.
P	cont. fom page 6
H	Q&A with BG Jeth Rey
