P	evacuation operations (NEO), humanitarian assistance, and low-intensity combat/counterterrorism. Several of these missions required small teams to launch on short notice as part of the European Survey and Assessment Team (ESAT) providing initial connectivity between USEUCOM and the crisis area. Additionally, when required, a larger contingent of the Detachment deployed to provide C2 communications for HQ SOCEUR when it formed a Joint Special Operations Task Force (JSOTF).
P	Example NEO missions include Operations SILVER ANVIL (following the 1992 coup in Sierra Leone); ASSURED RESPONSE (Liberian Civil War, 1996); GUARDIAN RETRIEVAL/FIRM RESPONSE (Evacuation of US Citizens from the former Zaire, during the First Congo War, 1997). Humanitarian assistance missions included Operations PROVIDE HOPE (Aid to former Soviet Republics, 1992); CT-43a Recovery (Aircraft Crash, Croatia 1996) and Operation ATLAS RESPONSE (Mozambique flood relief, 2000). SSD was also part of the various peace keeping and stabilization efforts in Bosnia-Herzegovina beginning in 1996 (Operations JOINT FORGE, JOINT GUARDIAN, ALLIED FORCE, FERVENT ARCHER).
P	In 1997, then Lt Colonel William "Bronco" Lane published a paper as part of his Naval War College studies, considering the tenets for successful communications supporting special operations. (5) He previously commanded the 112th Special Operations Signal Battalion (Airborne) at Fort Bragg. Within this unit were several 15-Soldier Signal Detachments, including one earmarked for Germany. Part of his thesis was that the mission for SOCEUR support should belong to the 112th, and that such support represented
P	"mission creep" for the mission of SSD's current parent, 52d Signal Battalion.
P	The paper touched off a series of discussions and analyses to determine the best way to provide communications support to SOCEUR, and all the various Theater Special Operations commands. He suggested that the 42-Soldier SOCEUR detachment was not sustainable in each Theater, while the smaller 15-Soldier variant limited operational flexibility.
P	In May of 2000, US Special Operations Command and the US Army agreed to re-form the SOCEUR Signal Detachment as a 32-Soldier unit, assigned to 112th Special Operations Signal Battalion. In so doing, the 15-Soldier "Germany" detachment merged with 17 spaces from the existing 52d Signal Battalion SSD. The goal was to complete the transfer and reorganization by 30 September 2002.
P	On 2 April 2002, Captain Brett Patron and First Sergeant Allan Fairley cased the guidon of SOCEUR Signal Detachment (Airborne), 52d Signal Battalion, presenting it to Lt Colonel Cyrus Gywn. They then received the new guidon of Signal Detachment (Europe), 112th Special Operations Signal Battalion (Airborne) from Lt Colonel Robert Bell. In attendance at the ceremony on Patch Barracks was Colonel "Bronco" Lane, commanding 2d Signal Brigade, the 52d Signal Battalion's higher headquarters.
P	From the start, circumstances tested the new 112thassigned Detachment as SSD maintained a presence supporting JSOTF-Sarajevo, deployed a team to the Republic of Georgia, and began support rotations for
P	Bringing SOF Communications to the Fight
P	Cont. on next Page
