P	The 112th Signal Battalion Distinctive Unit Insignia (DUI) was approved on 15 August 1986. Orange and white
P	(silver) are the colors of the Signal Corps. The dagger, an established symbol of Special Operations organizations is black and white (silver) in reference to the Battalion’s covert and overt missions. It is winged to emphasize present day capabilities for speed of deployment by air. The black color enhances the motto which is translated “Penetrate the Shadows.” The lightning flashes reflect electronic technology. The motto is in Italian in reference to the unit’s first area of combat operations.
P	communications] systems between the unified commander, major SOF headquarters, Army Special Operations Command [1st SOCOM ] subordinate commands, and other commands as required/ directed.” The battalion was to support SOCSOUTH and Special Operations Command, Europe (SOCEUR), which belonged to Army-supported combatant commands (COCOMs): U.S. Southern Command (USSOUTHCOM) and U.S. European Command (USEUCOM). The battalion was also “to establish communications liaison teams at various levels within the host country and/or supported and adjacent commands.” Those teams became synonymous with the equipment they used: the “Special Operations Liaison Communications Assemblage” (SOLCA), later simplified “SOCA.” The battalion’s fourteen SOCA teams were initially assigned to Company B, but a subsequent reorganization reallocated them evenly between two regionally aligned companies.
P	Each SOCA team consisted of three soldiers: one Sergeant First Class (SFC/E-7), one Sergeant (SGT/ E-5), and one Specialist (SPC/E-4), although it was not uncommon for Staff Sergeants (SSG/E-6) to serve as team leaders or for Privates First Class (PFC/E-3) to serve on SOCAs. Each team member was Military Occupational Specialty (MOS) 31C, Radio Operator- Maintainer or, less commonly, another 31-series MOS. Airborne-qualified and able to deploy on the first aircraft, SOCAs provided secure communications between the theater-level SOF commander and subordinate elements.
P	As the first 112th Signal Battalion Commander (‘Shadow Six’), LTC Bryan oversaw a period of rapid growth for the new battalion. It doubled in size, from 144 soldiers at activation to its full complement of 288 by mid-1988. Bryan prioritized getting the right people, fostering the right attitude, and providing them with the right equipment for the job. In this, he was aided by Command Sergeant Major (CSM) Billie F. Phipps, a capable battalion staff, and highly competent non-commissioned officers (NCOs). His command philosophy was condensed into five words: “Excellence in everything we do.”
P	Cont. next Page
