P	and procured cutting-edge commercial systems when necessary. It also fielded new super high frequency (SHF) satellite communications and high frequency (HF) multichannel systems. Special fabrication was done ‘in house,’ often with assistance from Tobyhanna Army Depot, Pennsylvania. Two such projects had major impacts.
P	The first was the SOCA kit, consisting of ultra-high frequency (UHF) tactical satellite (TACSAT), HF, and frequency modulation (FM) line-of-sight (LOS) radios; secure facsimile and teletype; encryption devices (KY-84, KY-57, KYV -5 or Sunburst processor); commercial power interface; and a generator. In its original configuration, the kit weighed over 1,200 pounds and was transported in a coffin-sized container. Battalion personnel cut the bulky metal racks that held the various systems to a more manageable size, and reorganized the other SOCA components until the entire kit fit in four footlocker-sized containers that could be carried by two soldiers and transported on a commercial aircraft. This was important because aircraft space dictated number of personnel and equipment size. The SOCA was often the only 112th communications package deployed on ARSOF missions.
P	A second customization project was installing a dual rear axle on the standard fivequarter ton M -1028 Commercial Utility Cargo Vehicle (CUCV), making it capable of hauling an AN/ TSC -93A multichannel satellite terminal previously transported by an M35 two-and-ahalf ton truck. The eight-foot parabolic antenna, previously carried on a second truck, was modified to fit on a trailer attached to the custom CUCV. The entire system could roll on/off a C -130 or C -141 aircraft, something not possible in its original configuration, but essential for SOF employment. In June 1988, LTC Bryan handed over command of the 112th to LTC Steven R. Sawdey, a likeminded officer whom Bryan first met in Korea in the early 1970s, when both were in the 2nd Infantry Division. The
P	Major General (Ret.) James David Bryan was instrumental in winning Army approval for what became the 112th Signal Battalion. He then served as its first Commander, the first to hold the title “Shadow Six.” In 2019, he was named an Army Special Operations Forces Icon.
P	Soldiers from Company A, 112th Signal Battalion conduct an engine running operation (i.e. ‘hot load’) onto a waiting C-130 Hercules aircraft in preparation for an airborne operation at Sicily Drop Zone, Fort Bragg, North Carolina in March 1990. The Airborne requirement helped build esprit de corps and promoted an elite mindset among 112th soldiers. (Photo courtesy of James S. Kestner)
P	Cont. next Page
