P	transition was nearly seamless, as Sawdey shared his predecessor’s commitment to technological innovation and realistic, mission-focused training. To him, getting the “right people” included airborne-qualified soldiers, and he fought to keep this requirement when manning shortfalls led the Army to send non-airborne personnel to the 112th. He also believed the best way to gain acceptance in the SOF community was to “get out there and do stuff.” Sawdey’s command philosophy reflected an aggressive mentality, and included an addenda: “Be prepared to kill for the mission.” CPT James S. ‘Steve’ Kestner, one of his company commanders, made sure that every one of his soldiers read it: “We were not your conventional signal unit.”
P	The combination of tough training and high morale had LTC Sawdey’s ‘Shadow Warriors’ eager to deploy and prove themselves. Many of the battalion leaders, Kestner noted, were SF-qualified ‘long-tabbers’ or had previously served in Special Operations units, including its first two commanders. Senior NCOs were highly trusted, having been proven under stress. Experience had been gained in exercises like FUERZAS UNIDAS in USSOUTHCOM, and FLINTLOCK in USEUCOM. These exercises allowed the battalion to practice supporting a JSOTF, while identifying organizational and individual strengths and weaknesses.
P	Panama SOCAs gained operational experience in deployments to USSOUTHCOM, beginning with the HAT TRICK counterdrug missions in 1987. After COL Charles H. ‘Chuck’ Fry, the SOCSOUTH commander, requested SOCA support in early 1988, teams began 60 to 90-day rotations to Panama, Honduras, El Salvador, and Colombia, often with only a two week break between trips. The operational tempo (OPTEMPO) was grueling, but it became a point-of-pride for the SOCA men. Team leader SSG Thomas A. Ayers, a charter member of the battalion, recalls being gone so much during the late 1980s that his landlord prorated his rent, and joked that he needed a Green Card to get back into the country.
P	The 112th’s SOCSOUTH mission took on greater importance as ARSOF intensified contingency planning for combat operations (BLUE SPOON) in Panama. MAJ Donald Kropp, battalion Operations Officer (S-3), represented the 112th Signal Battalion in those sessions, with First Lieutenant Oliver K. Wyrtki. Due to the persistent U.S. presence in Panama, robust fixed station communications networks already existed in the Canal Zone, but they were susceptible to attack from the Panama Defense Forces (PDF), and under surveillance by at least three Soviet ships transiting the Canal. Furthermore, existing secure military networks were insufficient to accommodate the demand resulting from the large influx of forces in BLUE SPOON. Accordingly, MAJ Kropp planned for the battalion to supply the Joint SOF headquarters in Panama with its own satellite communications network, but knew that it would take time to move the equipment into place.
P	In early October 1989, with tensions between the U.S. and Panama escalating, two SOCA teams deployed as part of the security enhancement mission. Those teams, which included SSG McCrae and SGT Elizalde, were on the ground when Operation JUST CAUSE began on 20 December. However, the 112th did not receive the expected call to deploy more forces. As ARSOF units jumped into combat that night, and while 3-7th SFG carried out its D -Day missions, the majority of the 112th Signal Battalion was at Fort Bragg feeling “painfully invisible.”
P	The omission was unintentional, a consequence of the short notice deployment, rapid pace of combat operations, and not being included early in the XVIII Airborne Corps-orchestrated deployment list. MAJ Kropp had planned a greater part for the 112th, but those factors reduced the battalion role. As a result, ‘Shadow Warrior’ contributions to JUST CAUSE were largely tactical. It was “SOCA-led war for the 112th,” said CPT Kestner. Regardless, LTC Sawdey sent him to Panama to “sort out what’s going on” and to figure out how to get more of the battalion into the fight.
P	On 20 December, CPT Kestner and SFC Robert Malton flew to Panama, arriving at Howard Air Force Base. The two were taken by a 3-7th SFG security element to SOCSOUTH headquarters at Albrook Air Station.
P	Cont. next Page
