P	There, Kestner briefed COL Jacobelly, who praised the two SOCAs in country. He told Kestner to help the SOCSOUTH J-3 and J-6 ‘plus up’ signal support by writing a Statement of Requirements to justify more SOCAs. Kestner worked with MAJ Roberto A. Ortiz, the J-6, and CPT Charles Cleveland, the S-3, 3-7th SFG.
P	As CPT Kestner worked to get more SOCAs into Panama, Hangar 450 at Albrook came under fire a second time, most likely stray rounds from a gunfight near Quarry Heights. The SOCA radio operators noticed that the radio signal was suddenly much weaker. Quickly checking their equipment, they discovered that the tactical satellite antenna atop the hangar was rendered inoperable by gunfire. A backup system was activated, but it was a reminder that the fight was ongoing, despite major tactical successes in the opening days.
P	With the requirement for three additional SOCAs validated on 24 December 1989, the teams were notified. SSG Thomas Plunkett, SGT Darell A. Brown, and SPC Glenn G. Oliver made up one of those SOCAs. Like many, SGT Brown had been to Central America multiple times since joining the 112th two years prior. This time, inclement weather at Fort Bragg presented an unexpected obstacle to him and the others assembling for deployment. A neighbor with a four-wheel drive (4x4) vehicle delivered SGT Brown to his unit. LTC Sawdey sent out 4x4 trucks to gather others stranded by the snow. Once all of the teams were present, they departed as scheduled, reporting to SOCSOUTH Headquarters on Christmas Day.
P	Initially, the SOCAs in country were all located near Panama City, either at Albrook or Howard, but several ‘pushed out’ with supported ARSOF elements. SGT Brown’s
P	SOCA team stayed at Albrook, providing a link between SOCSOUTH HQ and the teams at the remote forward operating bases (FOBs). SSG Thomas A. Ayers’ SOCA team, by contrast, went to FOB 72 at Rio Hato airfield with Operational Detachment Bravo (ODB) 710, 2-7 SFG, who had relieved the Rangers. They kept information flowing between the Operational Detachments Alpha (ODAs) operating in the field and
P	To make its AN/TSC-93A satellite terminal transportable on a C-130 aircraft, the 112th Signal Battalion worked with the 528th Special Operations Support Battalion and Tobyhanna Army Depot to modify a standard M-1028 Commercial Utility Cargo Vehicle, seen here, with dual-wheel rear axle. The project was completed in June 1988, and field-tested during the FLINTLOCK exercise of U.S. European Command.
P	SOCSOUTH SSI
P	Cont. next Page
