P	three SOCA communicators be added. COL Jacobelly did so. “The 112th SOCA Team shared our hardships and dangers and manned the perimeter,” Higgins explained. “That is why SFC Harvin’s team earned the right to wear the SF shoulder patch.”
P	Conclusion
P	The 112th Signal Battalion presence in Panama peaked at 30 personnel in early January 1990. It included seven SOCA teams, LTC Sawdey, CSM Black, and several staff planners. Some 112th soldiers redeployed back to Fort Bragg in January and, by the end of March 1990, only a small element, led by CPT Eric G. David, was supporting stability operations.
P	Although limited in numbers, the ‘Shadow Warriors’ in Panama ‘punched above their weight,’ providing SOCSOUTH and other ARSOF units secure communications when theater systems were overwhelmed. MAJ Kropp reported that, “in many cases, the 112th provided the only communications lifeline available to deployed Special Operations elements” in Panama. LTC Sawdey described the performance of his veterans as “magnificent.”
P	Some of those who spent Christmas 1989 in Panama would spend the next one in Saudi Arabia supporting Operation DESERT SHIELD. LTC Sawdey was not among them. He received orders for the Army War College, and handed over command to LTC Samuel R. Higdon in June 1990. Prior to leaving, Sawdey addressed his battalion. Noting the lack of fanfare for ARSOF returning from Panama, he told his soldiers, “It’s in the nature of our character to be quiet professionals. Our identity is to be defined by what we accomplish, not who we are.” Every soldier in the formation nodded. “At that moment,” CPT Kestner “knew the 112th Signal Battalion was a brotherhood.”
P	(L-R): Sergeant (SGT) William D. Childs, Staff Sergeant (SSG) Henry N. McCrae, and SGT Darell A. Brown pose in the SOCSOUTH radio room at Albrook Air Station in January 1990. All three were seasoned Special Operations Communications Assemblage (SOCA) operators, having multiple deployments to their credit. JUST CAUSE provided them their first combat deployment. (Photo Courtesy of William D. Childs)
