P	I have known Major General (MG) Dave Bryan since 1985. We were both at a meeting in St Louis to discuss the soon to be fielded Improved High Frequency Radio System (IHFRS). He was there as the Assistant Chief of Staff, Communication-Electronics for the 1st Special Operations Command and I was there from E Co/51st Infantry Regiment as the first Long Range Surveillance Communications Platoon Leader since Vietnam. While
P	IHFRS was the agenda item, it was clear Major (P) Bryan had bigger ideas - he was on a mission to persuade everyone at the conference and beyond that the Army needed to immediately modernize communications for Special Operations Forces (SOF) – from Special Forces to Training & Administration - all of it with the centerpiece being the creation of a Special Operations Signal Battalion that we know now as the 112th Signal Battalion (Special Operations) (Airborne). As I grew to know him, and work with him, I realized that the creation of the 112th might have been his first, but was not his last opportunity to create something new out of whole cloth. As he did with the 112th – applying his knowledge, experience, and passion for improving
P	C4 capabilities for SOF and the Signal Regiment – it was his vision of the future that drove him to become Cyberman and establish a baseline for Army Cyber Operations that continues to this day. When I look at his nearly 35 years of military service, I see consistent themes of taking care of people and most importantly, leading by example.
P	Born and raised in Alabama, General Bryan graduated from Jacksonville State University in 1970 with a plan to teach high school chemistry, math, biology and his true love, literature. Fortunately, as an Army ROTC Scholarship recipient, he owed the Army four years of military service. He never left.
P	After a year of training where he was taught the basics of Army communications, became qualified as a Parachutist and Pathfinder, and earned his Ranger tab, Bryan was off to Fort Bragg to be the Battalion Signal Officer for 3/325th Airborne Infantry in the 82nd Airborne Division. As a Lieutenant he followed the advice of his father, a retired Master Sergeant, “Listen to your NCOs. Seek their opinion and trust them, but as an officer, always be their leader.” A year later he volunteered for Special Forces training earning his long tab and
P	Green Beret followed by assignment to a special mission unit at the JFK Center for Military Assistance. An overseas tour in Korea as the S-3 of the 122nd Signal Battalion checked an Army box before he returned to Ft. Bragg for assignment to the Support Battalion, 7th Special Forces Group as the S-4, then as the S-3, and finally as the Commander of the Signal Company. History is vague about whether he stayed in the battalion because was a good communicator or because he was the quarterback of their championship football team, but that not withstanding, Bryan constantly worked above his pay grade to improve SOF communications.
P	Major General James David Bryan chats with Signal Soldiers.
H	How SOF Got their Comms
P	Cont. next Page by John Wilcox
