P	After the Advanced Course, Bryan again returned to the conventional Army with the 3rd Brigade, 1st Armored Division where he encountered a maintenance nightmare with radioteletype (RATT) systems. Leveraging his S-3 experience, Bryan got them fixed and kept them fixed, training the operators and maintenance soldiers with a “field SOP” that he wrote. Soon word spread and he was training other units with his field SOP until the entire armored task force had operational “RATT rigs.” This impressed the 7th Corps G-6 who had him reassigned to his staff just in time to take over as the first S-3 of the 93rd Signal Brigade. As the first Corps level Signal Brigade, there was no doctrine so Bryan and his team again wrote a detailed Field SOP for Corps Area Signal Operations. Better than anything at Fort Gordon, the Signal Center slapped a cover on the SOP and began teaching it as doctrine. Inside that Signal Center cover, inside the 93rd Signal Brigade cover, at the bottom of the introduction was a signature, “Approved by: CPT James D. Bryan, Brigade S-2/3.”
P	After three years in Germany, Bryan was assigned to lead training for the US Army Recruiting Command under (then) MG Max Thurman. Thurman appreciated what he saw in Bryan’s complete overhaul of recruiter training and in fact, was the officer who promoted Bryan to Major. Bryan was the author of the Army College Fund program to give Army recruiters a leg up on the other military service recruiters and as an additional duty, Thurman added Bryan to the team that developed the historic “Be All That You Can Be” campaign.
P	After attending Command and General Staff College, Bryan returned to Fort Bragg in 1984 as the ACofS, C-E of the new 1st Special Operations Command. Coinciding with his return was the drafting of multicommand required operational capability (MROC) 2-84 which was designed to modernize Special Operations Forces. Bryan and his staff inked thirty-six initiatives into MROC 2-84 including everything from rucksack satellite radios, multi-band radios, ruggedized laptops, rechargeable batteries, and yes, a special operations signal unit. Some wanted to call it a “squadron,” others a “communications support element” but Bryan successfully argued that it needed to be a Signal Battalion within the Signal Regiment with companies, platoons, and teams that would serve as the professional hub for special operations communications and communicators. When the Army Vice Chief of Staff (now, GEN Max Thurman) approved the activation of the SOF Signal Battalion, he knew that Bryan had been an early select to LTC and Battalion Command. As part of the approval, he reportedly said, “Activate this Battalion as soon as possible with Bryan in command. He created it, and he’ll get it done.” On September 17, 1986, the 112th Signal Battalion (Special Operations) (Airborne) was activated and LTC Bryan was its first commander, the first “Shadow 6” and in 2013 the 112th’s new compound at Fort Bragg was dedicated in his name.
P	After command with many operational lessons under his belt, Bryan attended the Army War College where he started looking at the next ridgeline and he wrote his award winning thesis on, “The Future of SOF Communications.” Given his ability to define requirements and drive needed change to include approval and activation of the 112th Signal Battalion (SO), some including myself, refer to Bryan as the “Father of Modern SOF Communications.”
P	As a LTC(P), Bryan was assigned to the Joint Staff J-6 in 1989 where he became the “go-to” guy during Desert Shield and Desert Storm. In a lessons learned report, he catalogued over 700 interoperability issues between generations of Army, sister service, and Coalition C4 systems which ultimately resulted in the Bryan led “C4I for the Warfighter” program that established the firstever framework for platform-centric, network-centric and decision/knowledge-centric interoperability requirements and programs.
P	112th Signal Battalion (SO) activation - 1986
P	Cont. next Page
