P	When Bryan assumed command of the 35th Airborne Signal Brigade in 1993, the unit had just completed fielding of the Army MSE systems. He knew that operational deployments were in their near future and that they had to be ready to participate in joint and coalition configurations. Over the next two years they deployed signal support seven times, each time providing first-ever MSE support to joint and coalition forces – in places like Somalia, Haiti, West and Central Africa, to name a few.
P	As Bryan was being selected for Brigadier General he started his transition from SOF Communicator to Cyber Operator. As the J-6 of the United States Pacific Command (USPACOM), Bryan realized that the Chief Information Officer (CIO) role was no longer a “Garrison” activity, but applied across the force so in 1998 he became the first Combatant Command CIO. Additionally, he recognized the requirement for coalition interoperability and established the Asia-Pacific Area Network (APAN) which is still in use today. He established the first-ever Theater C4 Coordination Center which was the predecessor of today’s Network Operations and Security Centers.
P	Selected for a second star, Bryan received a dual hat assignment in 2000 as the Vice Director, Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) and as the Commander of Joint Task Force – Computer Network Defense. As Vice Director, he led the development of a first comprehensive doctrine for network operations and security based on his experiences with the Theater C4 Coordination Center at USPACOM. As JTF Commander he led it through its evolution from JTF-CND to JTF- Computer Network Operations (JTF-CNO) and was the first Title 10 commander to have both the defensive and offensive cyber missions. The command eventually evolved to JTF-Global Network Operations (JTF-GNO). It was during his time as JTF commander that he created the character “Cyberman” and famously appeared in full costume at numerous conferences to bring much needed attention to the need to mainstream and professionalize cyber operations including establishing a cyber career field in the Army and other military services. In the Signal Regiment Museum, his “Cyberman” costume is on display and he is referred to as the “Father of Army Cyber.”
P	In 2003, Bryan had one last assignment. The Army Chief of Staff, GEN Schoomaker asked him to reorganize and re-equip the Signal Regiment to support the Army’s new modular Brigade concept. The Chief’s guidance was clear, “Give me a lot of the 112th ” in terms of capabilities. Bryan formed and led a team, many members of which had worked for him over the years, and in four months they had a strategy that is still guiding the Regiment today.
P	Few officers leave a true lasting legacy, but in the case of MG Dave Bryan, he left two. The activation of the 112th Signal Battalion created a touchstone for Army SOF communicators, and the formation of the JTF-CND laid the foundation for today’s CNO. Both were possible because Dave Bryan knew what right looked like and wouldn’t take no for an answer. Always a leader, he continues to be a friend and mentor to many.
