P	communications since the Vietnam War. Chief Ziesman was a plank holder in SFOD -Delta and literally deployed to every crisis operation from Eagle Claw to Desert Storm. While today we take satellite communications for granted that wasn’t the case in 1979. Needing reliable beyond line of site capability for the Eagle Claw Hostage Rescue mission, Mr.
P	Zeisman and his Operations Sergeant modified existing radios to operate over the Air Force’s Tactical SATCOM system thereby serving as a prototype for the manpack SATCOM radios we have today. Moving forward, Mr. Ziesman was the principle SFOD - Delta communications planner for Urgent Fury, Just Cause, and then Desert Shield/Desert Storm, each time deploying forward to serve as a primary communicator for the operation. Retiring from active duty in 1991, Mr. Zeisman returned to SFOD -Delta as a government civilian putting his years of experience to work developing the next generation HF and SATCOM radios for Special Missions Units. His work in developing and codifying tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) proved critical during operations in Somalia and Bosnia. In 1998, he moved to the Joint Special Operations Command (JSOC) J6 as the Deputy Director of Command, Control, Communications, Computers, and Intelligence (C4I) where he continued to influence SOF C4 policy and doctrine. His work laid the foundation for the tactical and operational SOF networks we see today and as such, Mr. Ziesman is considered by many to the Godfather of SOF Communications. If Mr Ziesman is the Godfather, then Mr. Pelaez is the Crusty Uncle. Master Sergeant Mike Pelaez enlisted as Airborne Radio Operator and immediately volunteered for the Special Forces Qualification Course from which he graduated in 1968. With the
P	John A Wilcox is a former member of the Senior Executive Service (SES) and Retired Army Colonel who spent 36 years with the Department of Defense including 23 years in the Special Operations Community.
P	Cont. on Page 31
P	Cont. fom Page 3
