P	exception of his initial training, Master Sergeant Pelaez, and then Mr. Pelaez, served his entire career of 43 years in the Special Operations community or in support of SOF. With his first assignment to 1st
P	Special Forces Group Alpha (SFG)(A) in Okinawa, it wasn’t long before Master Sergeant Pelaez volunteered for duty in Vietnam with the Military Assistance Command, Vietnam – Studies and Observations Group (MACV -SOG). Lots of myths abound about MACV -SOG, but two statistics tell the story. Thirteen members of MACV -SOG earned the Medal of Honor and literally 99% of unit members were wounded or killed. Fortunately, Master Sergeant Pelaez was only one of the wounded earning his Purple Heart in 1969 while providing covering fire to allow his Team to break contact. He recovered and then returned to Vietnam and MACV -SOG to teach in the Reconnaissance Team Leaders Course and then serve as an adviser to a Cambodian Battalion before returning to the United States. After serving with 7th SFG (A) in Panama, Master Sergeant Pelaez again volunteered, this time for JSOC where he was the first Plank Owner for the newly established Joint Communications Unit (JCU). With JCU he continued to support real world operations including deploying with SFOD -Delta for the BG Dozier rescue in Italy and culminating with a parachute jump into Grenada as part of Urgent Fury. After service as a First Sergeant at the Joint Communications Support Element (JCSE) and attendance at the Sergeant’s Major Academy, Master Sergeant Pelaez retired from active duty in
P	1989. Similar to Mr. Zeisman, after retiring from uniform, Master Sergeant Pelaez became a government civilian at USSOCOM continuing to support the Special Operations Force, starting out with C4 requirements and culminating as the J6 Deputy for Operations where he was the absolute continuity as USSOCOM reorganized for the 21st century. As the Crusty Uncle, Mike Pelaez provided mentorship and guidance across the Force and to numerous J6s and CIOs. The Special Operations community treats communications as the mission critical task that it is and develops communicators to meet that task. Mr. Zeisman and Mr. Pelaez are two of many who have risen to the challenge and been Special Operations Communicators.
P	CW4 Zeisman prior to Eagle Claw inseron into Iran.
P	Cont. fom Page 3
P	Honoring Special Operations Communicators by John Wilcox
